Readme.md, before:

# JavaScript Style Guide

This is a guide for writing consistent and aesthetically pleasing JavaScript code.
It is inspired by what is popular within the community, and flavored with some
personal opinions.

There is a .jshintrc and .ESLintrc which enforces these rules as closely as possible. You can
use that and adjust it.

This guide was originally created by [Felix Geisendörfer](http://felixge.de/) and contributed to by the Symphono team, and is licensed under the [CC BY-SA 3.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/)
license. It has been modified to suit the preferences of the CRUX Informatics development 
team.

In the interest of ensuring a quality codebase most of these styles will be built into a linter that can catch anything that is missed by the human eye, but inevitably some of these things either cannot be checked easily by a linter, or will not be included for purposes of reducing strictness, and it is up to the developer to follow the guidelines.

## Table of contents

* [1 tab for indention](#1-tab-for-indention)
* [Newlines](#newlines)
* [No trailing whitespace](#no-trailing-whitespace)
* [Use Semicolons](#use-semicolons)
* [120 characters per line](#120-characters-per-line)
* [Use single quotes](#use-single-quotes)
* [Opening braces go on the same line](#opening-braces-go-on-the-same-line)
* [Method chaining](#method-chaining)
* [Declare one variable per var statement](#declare-one-variable-per-var-statement)
* [Better yet, just never use var keyword (unless you absolutely have to)](#just-never-use-var)
* [Use lowerCamelCase for variables, properties and function names](#use-lowercamelcase-for-variables-properties-and-function-names)
* [Use UpperCamelCase for class names](#use-uppercamelcase-for-class-names)
* [Use UPPERCASE for Constants](#use-uppercase-for-constants)
* [Object / Array creation](#object--array-creation)
* [Use the === operator](#use-the--operator)
* [Do not extend built-in prototypes](#do-not-extend-built-in-prototypes)
* [Use descriptive conditions](#use-descriptive-conditions)
* [Write small functions](#write-small-functions)
* [Return early from functions](#return-early-from-functions)
* [Name your closures](#name-your-closures)
* [No nested closures](#no-nested-closures)

## 1 Tab for indention

Use 1 tab for indenting your code and swear an oath to never mix tabs and
spaces - a special kind of hell is awaiting you otherwise. How large of an
indent you make a tab appear to take in your editor is your own business.
Make it 8. Make it 4. Make it 2. I don't care. I will do what I like. Tabs
give me that option.

## Newlines

Use UNIX-style newlines (`\n`), and a newline character as the last character
of a file. Windows-style newlines (`\r\n`) are forbidden inside any repository.

## No trailing whitespace

Just like you brush your teeth after every meal, you clean up any trailing
whitespace in your JS files before committing. Otherwise the rotten smell of
careless neglect will eventually drive away contributors and/or co-workers.

## Use Semicolons

According to [scientific research][hnsemicolons], the usage of semicolons is
a core value of our community. Consider the points of [the opposition][], but
be a traditionalist when it comes to abusing error correction mechanisms for
cheap syntactic pleasures.

[the opposition]: http://blog.izs.me/post/2353458699/an-open-letter-to-javascript-leaders-regarding
[hnsemicolons]: http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=1547647

## 120 characters per line

Limit your lines to 120 characters. Yes, screens have gotten much bigger over the
last few years, but your brain has not. Use the additional room for split screen,
your editor supports that, right?

## Use single quotes

Use single quotes, unless you are writing JSON.

*Right:*

```js
var foo = 'bar';
```

*Wrong:*

```js
var foo = "bar";
```

## Opening braces go on the same line

Your opening braces go on the same line as the statement, One True Brace Style, as opposed to Stroustrup, or Allman

*Right:*

```js
if (true) {
  console.log('winning');
}
```
```
if (foo) {
  bar();
} else {
  baz();
}
```
```
try {
  somethingRisky();
} catch(e) {
  handleError();
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
if (true)
{
  console.log('losing');
}
```
```
if (foo) {
  bar();
}
else {
  baz();
}
```
```
try
{
  somethingRisky();
} catch(e)
{
  handleError();
}

try
{
  somethingRisky();
} 
catch(e)
{
  handleError();
}

```

Also, notice the use of whitespace before and after the condition statement.

## Method chaining

One method per line should be used if you want to chain methods.

You should also indent these methods so it's easier to tell they are part of the same chain.

*Right:*

```js
User
  .findOne({ name: 'foo' })
  .populate('bar')
  .exec(function(err, user) {
    return true;
  });
````

*Wrong:*

```js
User
.findOne({ name: 'foo' })
.populate('bar')
.exec(function(err, user) {
  return true;
});

User.findOne({ name: 'foo' })
  .populate('bar')
  .exec(function(err, user) {
    return true;
  });

User.findOne({ name: 'foo' }).populate('bar')
.exec(function(err, user) {
  return true;
});

User.findOne({ name: 'foo' }).populate('bar')
  .exec(function(err, user) {
    return true;
  });
````

## Declare one variable per var statement

Declare one variable per var statement, it makes it easier to re-order the
lines. However, ignore [Crockford][crockfordconvention] when it comes to
declaring variables deeper inside a function, just put the declarations wherever
they make sense.

*Right:*

```js
var keys   = ['foo', 'bar'];
var values = [23, 42];

var object = {};
while (keys.length) {
  var key = keys.pop();
  object[key] = values.pop();
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
var keys = ['foo', 'bar'],
    values = [23, 42],
    object = {},
    key;

while (keys.length) {
  key = keys.pop();
  object[key] = values.pop();
}
```

[crockfordconvention]: http://javascript.crockford.com/code.html

## Just never use var

Although the above standard still applies to any variable declaration, if you are using ES6 there is no need to use the var keyword anymore now that we have let and const. Really, the only reason to still use var is for compatibility reasons for older browsers that don't recognize let or const, and where you don't have access to something like Babel. Ultimately, although var is function scoped while let is block scoped, if you want function scope you can just use let at the top of a function, which is what you SHOULD do with var anyhow when seeking function scope to make it's scope clear and avoid confusion from hoisting. 

```
function someFunction() {
  let someVariable = 'This will work just fine, and is much less confusing than the following(for multiple reasons =)'
  (function() {
    //var someVariable; 
    if(true) {
      var someVariable = 'If I want function scope here, then why not explicitly declare this above as is secretly happening.' 
    }
  )()
}
```

```
function someFunction() {
  (function() {
    let someVariable;
    if(true) {
      someVariable = 'let will just help us always be explicit when our desire is function scope in this way.'
    }
    console.log(someVariable)
  })()
}
```

[Stack Overflow discussion about var]: https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/274342/is-there-any-reason-to-use-the-var-keyword-in-es6

## Use lowerCamelCase for variables, properties and function names

Variables, properties and function names should use `lowerCamelCase`.  They
should also be descriptive. Single character variables and uncommon
abbreviations should generally be avoided.

*Right:*

```js
var adminUser = db.query('SELECT * FROM users ...');
```

*Wrong:*

```js
var admin_user = db.query('SELECT * FROM users ...');
```

## Use UpperCamelCase for class names

Class names should be capitalized using `UpperCamelCase`.

*Right:*

```js
function BankAccount() {
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
function bank_Account() {
}
```

## Use UPPERCASE for Constants

Constants should be declared as regular variables or static class properties,
using all uppercase letters.

Node.js / V8 actually supports mozilla's [const][const] extension, but
unfortunately that cannot be applied to class members, nor is it part of any
ECMA standard.

*Right:*

```js
var SECOND = 1 * 1000;

function File() {
}
File.FULL_PERMISSIONS = 0777;
```

*Wrong:*

```js
const SECOND = 1 * 1000;

function File() {
}
File.fullPermissions = 0777;
```

[const]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/const

## Object / Array creation

Use trailing commas and put *short* declarations on a single line. Only quote
keys when your interpreter complains:

*Right:*

```js
var a = ['hello', 'world'];
var b = {
  good: 'code',
  'is generally': 'pretty',
};
```

*Wrong:*

```js
var a = [
  'hello', 'world'
];
var b = {"good": 'code'
        , is generally: 'pretty'
        };
```

## Use the === operator

Programming is not about remembering [stupid rules][comparisonoperators]. Use
the triple equality operator as it will work just as expected.

*Right:*

```js
var a = 0;
if (a !== '') {
  console.log('winning');
}

```

*Wrong:*

```js
var a = 0;
if (a == '') {
  console.log('losing');
}
```

[comparisonoperators]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Comparison_Operators

## Do not extend built-in prototypes

Do not extend the prototype of native JavaScript objects. Your future self will
be forever grateful.

*Right:*

```js
var a = [];
if (!a.length) {
  console.log('winning');
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
Array.prototype.empty = function() {
  return !this.length;
}

var a = [];
if (a.empty()) {
  console.log('losing');
}
```

## Use descriptive conditions

Any non-trivial conditions should be assigned to a descriptively named variable or function:

*Right:*

```js
var isValidPassword = password.length >= 4 && /^(?=.*\d).{4,}$/.test(password);

if (isValidPassword) {
  console.log('winning');
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
if (password.length >= 4 && /^(?=.*\d).{4,}$/.test(password)) {
  console.log('losing');
}
```

## Write small functions

Keep your functions short. A good function fits on a slide that the people in
the last row of a big room can comfortably read. So don't count on them having
perfect vision and limit yourself to ~15 lines of code per function.

## Return early from functions

To avoid deep nesting of if-statements, always return a function's value as early
as possible.

*Right:*

```js
function isPercentage(val) {
  if (val < 0) {
    return false;
  }

  if (val > 100) {
    return false;
  }

  return true;
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
function isPercentage(val) {
  if (val >= 0) {
    if (val < 100) {
      return true;
    } else {
      return false;
    }
  } else {
    return false;
  }
}
```

Or for this particular example it may also be fine to shorten things even
further:

```js
function isPercentage(val) {
  var isInRange = (val >= 0 && val <= 100);
  return isInRange;
}
```

## Name your closures

Feel free to give your closures a name. It shows that you care about them, and
will produce better stack traces, heap and cpu profiles.

*Right:*

```js
req.on('end', function onEnd() {
  console.log('winning');
});
```

*Wrong:*

```js
req.on('end', function() {
  console.log('losing');
});
```

## No nested closures

Use closures, but don't nest them. Otherwise your code will become a mess.

*Right:*

```js
setTimeout(function() {
  client.connect(afterConnect);
}, 1000);

function afterConnect() {
  console.log('winning');
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
setTimeout(function() {
  client.connect(function() {
    console.log('losing');
  });
}, 1000);
```

Commit message:

Updating to include Max and Min rc info

Readme.md, after:

# JavaScript Style Guide

This is a guide for writing consistent and aesthetically pleasing JavaScript code.
It is inspired by what is popular within the community, and flavored with some
personal opinions.

This guide was originally created by [Felix Geisendörfer](http://felixge.de/) and contributed to by the Symphono team, and is licensed under the [CC BY-SA 3.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/)
license. It has been modified to suit the preferences of the CRUX Informatics development 
team.

There is the original .jshintrc and .ESLintrc which enforces these rules as closely as possible. You can
use that and adjust it. We also have created an .eslintrcMaximum and a .eslintMinimum which include some additional rules. eslintrcMinimum is intended for checking the bare minimum and omit stylistic things, and eslintrcMaximum has absolutely everything. Both .eslintrcMinimum and .eslintMaximum depend on an additional dependency called eslint-plugin-require-path-exists which must be npm installed before use into your package.json. This checks paths to ensure the items you are require("somepackage"), actually exist.

In the interest of ensuring a quality codebase most of these styles will be built into a linter that can catch anything that is missed by the human eye, but inevitably some of these things either cannot be checked easily by a linter, or will not be included for purposes of reducing strictness, and it is up to the developer to follow the guidelines.

## Table of contents

* [1 tab for indention](#1-tab-for-indention)
* [Newlines](#newlines)
* [No trailing whitespace](#no-trailing-whitespace)
* [Use Semicolons](#use-semicolons)
* [120 characters per line](#120-characters-per-line)
* [Use single quotes](#use-single-quotes)
* [Opening braces go on the same line](#opening-braces-go-on-the-same-line)
* [Method chaining](#method-chaining)
* [Declare one variable per var statement](#declare-one-variable-per-var-statement)
* [Better yet, just never use var keyword (unless you absolutely have to)](#just-never-use-var)
* [Use lowerCamelCase for variables, properties and function names](#use-lowercamelcase-for-variables-properties-and-function-names)
* [Use UpperCamelCase for class names](#use-uppercamelcase-for-class-names)
* [Use UPPERCASE for Constants](#use-uppercase-for-constants)
* [Object / Array creation](#object--array-creation)
* [Use the === operator](#use-the--operator)
* [Do not extend built-in prototypes](#do-not-extend-built-in-prototypes)
* [Use descriptive conditions](#use-descriptive-conditions)
* [Write small functions](#write-small-functions)
* [Return early from functions](#return-early-from-functions)
* [Name your closures](#name-your-closures)
* [No nested closures](#no-nested-closures)

## 1 Tab for indention

Use 1 tab for indenting your code and swear an oath to never mix tabs and
spaces - a special kind of hell is awaiting you otherwise. How large of an
indent you make a tab appear to take in your editor is your own business.
Make it 8. Make it 4. Make it 2. I don't care. I will do what I like. Tabs
give me that option.

## Newlines

Use UNIX-style newlines (`\n`), and a newline character as the last character
of a file. Windows-style newlines (`\r\n`) are forbidden inside any repository.

## No trailing whitespace

Just like you brush your teeth after every meal, you clean up any trailing
whitespace in your JS files before committing. Otherwise the rotten smell of
careless neglect will eventually drive away contributors and/or co-workers.

## Use Semicolons

According to [scientific research][hnsemicolons], the usage of semicolons is
a core value of our community. Consider the points of [the opposition][], but
be a traditionalist when it comes to abusing error correction mechanisms for
cheap syntactic pleasures.

[the opposition]: http://blog.izs.me/post/2353458699/an-open-letter-to-javascript-leaders-regarding
[hnsemicolons]: http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=1547647

## 120 characters per line

Limit your lines to 120 characters. Yes, screens have gotten much bigger over the
last few years, but your brain has not. Use the additional room for split screen,
your editor supports that, right?

## Use single quotes

Use single quotes, unless you are writing JSON.

*Right:*

```js
var foo = 'bar';
```

*Wrong:*

```js
var foo = "bar";
```

## Opening braces go on the same line

Your opening braces go on the same line as the statement, One True Brace Style, as opposed to Stroustrup, or Allman

*Right:*

```js
if (true) {
  console.log('winning');
}
```
```
if (foo) {
  bar();
} else {
  baz();
}
```
```
try {
  somethingRisky();
} catch(e) {
  handleError();
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
if (true)
{
  console.log('losing');
}
```
```
if (foo) {
  bar();
}
else {
  baz();
}
```
```
try
{
  somethingRisky();
} catch(e)
{
  handleError();
}

try
{
  somethingRisky();
} 
catch(e)
{
  handleError();
}

```

Also, notice the use of whitespace before and after the condition statement.

## Method chaining

One method per line should be used if you want to chain methods.

You should also indent these methods so it's easier to tell they are part of the same chain.

*Right:*

```js
User
  .findOne({ name: 'foo' })
  .populate('bar')
  .exec(function(err, user) {
    return true;
  });
````

*Wrong:*

```js
User
.findOne({ name: 'foo' })
.populate('bar')
.exec(function(err, user) {
  return true;
});

User.findOne({ name: 'foo' })
  .populate('bar')
  .exec(function(err, user) {
    return true;
  });

User.findOne({ name: 'foo' }).populate('bar')
.exec(function(err, user) {
  return true;
});

User.findOne({ name: 'foo' }).populate('bar')
  .exec(function(err, user) {
    return true;
  });
````

## Declare one variable per var statement

Declare one variable per var statement, it makes it easier to re-order the
lines. However, ignore [Crockford][crockfordconvention] when it comes to
declaring variables deeper inside a function, just put the declarations wherever
they make sense.

*Right:*

```js
var keys   = ['foo', 'bar'];
var values = [23, 42];

var object = {};
while (keys.length) {
  var key = keys.pop();
  object[key] = values.pop();
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
var keys = ['foo', 'bar'],
    values = [23, 42],
    object = {},
    key;

while (keys.length) {
  key = keys.pop();
  object[key] = values.pop();
}
```

[crockfordconvention]: http://javascript.crockford.com/code.html

## Just never use var

Although the above standard still applies to any variable declaration, if you are using ES6 there is no need to use the var keyword anymore now that we have let and const. Really, the only reason to still use var is for compatibility reasons for older browsers that don't recognize let or const, and where you don't have access to something like Babel. Ultimately, although var is function scoped while let is block scoped, if you want function scope you can just use let at the top of a function, which is what you SHOULD do with var anyhow when seeking function scope to make it's scope clear and avoid confusion from hoisting. 

```
function someFunction() {
  let someVariable = 'This will work just fine, and is much less confusing than the following(for multiple reasons =)'
  (function() {
    //var someVariable; 
    if(true) {
      var someVariable = 'If I want function scope here, then why not explicitly declare this above as is secretly happening.' 
    }
  )()
}
```

```
function someFunction() {
  (function() {
    let someVariable;
    if(true) {
      someVariable = 'let will just help us always be explicit when our desire is function scope in this way.'
    }
    console.log(someVariable)
  })()
}
```

[Stack Overflow discussion about var]: https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/274342/is-there-any-reason-to-use-the-var-keyword-in-es6

## Use lowerCamelCase for variables, properties and function names

Variables, properties and function names should use `lowerCamelCase`.  They
should also be descriptive. Single character variables and uncommon
abbreviations should generally be avoided.

*Right:*

```js
var adminUser = db.query('SELECT * FROM users ...');
```

*Wrong:*

```js
var admin_user = db.query('SELECT * FROM users ...');
```

## Use UpperCamelCase for class names

Class names should be capitalized using `UpperCamelCase`.

*Right:*

```js
function BankAccount() {
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
function bank_Account() {
}
```

## Use UPPERCASE for Constants

Constants should be declared as regular variables or static class properties,
using all uppercase letters.

Node.js / V8 actually supports mozilla's [const][const] extension, but
unfortunately that cannot be applied to class members, nor is it part of any
ECMA standard.

*Right:*

```js
var SECOND = 1 * 1000;

function File() {
}
File.FULL_PERMISSIONS = 0777;
```

*Wrong:*

```js
const SECOND = 1 * 1000;

function File() {
}
File.fullPermissions = 0777;
```

[const]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/const

## Object / Array creation

Use trailing commas and put *short* declarations on a single line. Only quote
keys when your interpreter complains:

*Right:*

```js
var a = ['hello', 'world'];
var b = {
  good: 'code',
  'is generally': 'pretty',
};
```

*Wrong:*

```js
var a = [
  'hello', 'world'
];
var b = {"good": 'code'
        , is generally: 'pretty'
        };
```

## Use the === operator

Programming is not about remembering [stupid rules][comparisonoperators]. Use
the triple equality operator as it will work just as expected.

*Right:*

```js
var a = 0;
if (a !== '') {
  console.log('winning');
}

```

*Wrong:*

```js
var a = 0;
if (a == '') {
  console.log('losing');
}
```

[comparisonoperators]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Comparison_Operators

## Do not extend built-in prototypes

Do not extend the prototype of native JavaScript objects. Your future self will
be forever grateful.

*Right:*

```js
var a = [];
if (!a.length) {
  console.log('winning');
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
Array.prototype.empty = function() {
  return !this.length;
}

var a = [];
if (a.empty()) {
  console.log('losing');
}
```

## Use descriptive conditions

Any non-trivial conditions should be assigned to a descriptively named variable or function:

*Right:*

```js
var isValidPassword = password.length >= 4 && /^(?=.*\d).{4,}$/.test(password);

if (isValidPassword) {
  console.log('winning');
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
if (password.length >= 4 && /^(?=.*\d).{4,}$/.test(password)) {
  console.log('losing');
}
```

## Write small functions

Keep your functions short. A good function fits on a slide that the people in
the last row of a big room can comfortably read. So don't count on them having
perfect vision and limit yourself to ~15 lines of code per function.

## Return early from functions

To avoid deep nesting of if-statements, always return a function's value as early
as possible.

*Right:*

```js
function isPercentage(val) {
  if (val < 0) {
    return false;
  }

  if (val > 100) {
    return false;
  }

  return true;
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
function isPercentage(val) {
  if (val >= 0) {
    if (val < 100) {
      return true;
    } else {
      return false;
    }
  } else {
    return false;
  }
}
```

Or for this particular example it may also be fine to shorten things even
further:

```js
function isPercentage(val) {
  var isInRange = (val >= 0 && val <= 100);
  return isInRange;
}
```

## Name your closures

Feel free to give your closures a name. It shows that you care about them, and
will produce better stack traces, heap and cpu profiles.

*Right:*

```js
req.on('end', function onEnd() {
  console.log('winning');
});
```

*Wrong:*

```js
req.on('end', function() {
  console.log('losing');
});
```

## No nested closures

Use closures, but don't nest them. Otherwise your code will become a mess.

*Right:*

```js
setTimeout(function() {
  client.connect(afterConnect);
}, 1000);

function afterConnect() {
  console.log('winning');
}
```

*Wrong:*

```js
setTimeout(function() {
  client.connect(function() {
    console.log('losing');
  });
}, 1000);
```
